# Branches

Branches in TGFP are not accessed through the traditional method of entering a doorway found somewhere within a dungeon. Instead, every single time Terminal dies, he is transported randomly to one of these 4 branches. A typical run will therefore clear individual segments of each branch, and will never see the entire thing. Unless one never dies and remains in the same branch the whole game. I plan to make that nigh impossible. At the end of a branch is a boss - only 1 of these bosses is fought every run, and it depends on which branch the player finishes first.

* **Faith's End** - A claustrophobic complex, composed of small cubic rooms and tight hallways with randomly generated layouts. Playstyle here is all about strategic steps and attacks, not getting cornered, and managing Resolve -- the amount of Souls you can summon in each room. You can summon souls beyond your Resolve counter, but that costs Ipseity. Every 5 rooms, a Harmonic Relay grants you the opportunity to trade 10 Common Souls for 4 Legendary Souls, but messing up the minigame may generate Serene Souls instead. At the end of Faith's End awaits the boss Epsilon, a robotic snake who executes movements based on code blocks placed on the battlefield.

* **Roseic Circus** - A wacky arena with a few possible layouts, watched over by the playful and mischievious Rose, the last Saint to govern the Old World. Playstyle here is fast paced and chaotic, putting the player against hordes and hordes of gimmicky enemies. Thankfully, you also have infinite Soul draws, making this an effective raw test of power, and an opportunity to spam the cooler powers you don't get to use as often in the other areas. There are special rounds every 5 rounds with a miniboss, after which a Harmonic Relay will spawn. Watch out for the Glamorous Toxin, with confusing mind-warping properties. Should a contender reach the final wave, Rose himself will descend into the fray, and test the player's cunning against his many tricks and illusions.

* **Edge of Reality** - A more traditional area in terms of classical roguelike design, with a winding cave-like format and limited field of view. Explored territory outside the player's sight will occasionally warp into other shapes, constantly changing the landscape. Killing enough enemies will summon a special prefab vault, presenting a sizable challenge, and progressing the global room count by 1 should it be beaten. Watch out for the Harmonic Hunters prowling about for fresh converts. After one has braved the wilderness long enough, the way to the Heart of Reality will open, where the legendary hunter Ronin may be found. Watch out for his acrobatic moves, and pay attention to the directions in which he dashes, for each wall causes a different effect when struck.

* **Serene Spire** - The vertical homebase of the Serene Collective, populated only by the numerous Harmonizers. Gravity takes effect here, making upwards movement only possible while standing on a ladder, and constantly threatening the player with a long fall to the bottom. The Serene Collectivists dislike intruders, can fly, and will actively use their many hypermobile, low damage spells to try to push you off, or zone you away from the ladders so they may win by attrition. After climbing 5 floors, a more peaceful Serene Harmonizer will offer you the purchase of a Harmonic Modulator, which should help the player with the excess Common souls that may be bloating their inventory. At the summit of the Spire, you may challenge Fluffy, the gestalt consciousness of the hivemind, and try to fend off the massive horde while chasing after elusive musicians powering the Harmonic Song. Bring your AOE damage!

After the boss of one of these 4 branches has been defeated, you will enter the final branch.

* **Reality Vortex** - The endgame, a synthesis of all that you have traversed so far. As the merging of all that remains of the Old World, prepare to battle enemies from all 4 branches, and to suffer through the terrifying synergies they can craft in this unusual partnership of the Roseic citizens, the Serene Collectivists, the Faith's End specimens, and the beasts from the Edge of Reality. Brave the roaring winds at the end of the world, and find your way to the Vortex's Eye, where the final showdown awaits.