*"The two golden-plated Soulscribes in the centre of this room possess the power to rewrite and reprogram their assigned Souls into a form much better suited to aiding your quest. As for the ruffians placed within the Relays, we shall bestow upon them elevation they could only dream of. Now, the Collective's definition of 'elevation' may vary slightly from yours, but Fluffy trusts we shall find mutual understanding somewhere down the line. No matter what, be assured - they will not be pursuing their journey at your side."*

- A Serene Harmonizer explaining the trading process in a Harmony Relay

## The Games Foxes Play
*([github](https://github.com/Oneirical/The-Games-Foxes-Play) | [view all previous posts](https://github.com/Oneirical/The-Games-Foxes-Play/tree/main/design/Development%20Logs) | [play online in browser on itch.io!](https://oneirical.itch.io/tgfp))*

With each inscribed (or deleted) line of code, the 0.2 release draws nearer. It would have been nice to be finished this week, but there are still some edge cases and insufficiently tested features here and there I want to polish in the next few days. Still, I've ported a new build on my itch.io page with all the latest improvements, and a slightly narrowed-down loot pool to avoid spawning the more... experimental reworks and additions.

## Point-and-Click Annihilation

Finally, *TGFP* is fully playable using only the mouse! As I've been thinning down the number of useless keys in my control scheme, I've reached a confortable state where only WASD, the number 0-9 number row and QFLC are required to play. Ironically, full keyboard support isn't *completely* there quite just yet, as the inventory screen currently only supports click-to-equip, but it's getting there. Last thing I want is a complete game that demands both mouse and keyboard to be able to perform every possible action.

To move the player character using the mouse, one simply needs to click in any of [these 4 triangles]() to select that associated direction. Now, I feel like it would be a little more intuitive if the central "joining point" followed the player instead of staying still in the middle of the screen. Right now, you could be hugging the rightmost wall, clicking slightly left of your character, and it would do absolutely nothing as your input would be registered as a right-directional move. However, having bigger, static triangles makes movement more predictable, and might be better if my game ever somehow ended up on mobile. I plan to have an option to choose between these two modes, but I wonder what should be the default. Do tell me what you think, if you please.

Also on the topic of UI, there is now a [text log]() at the bottom of the screen, just like the OGs. It may seem strange to only implement one this late, but that is because it was already pretty clear who was attacking who just by paying attention to the animations. If anything, most of the text that goes in that log is dialogue or general status messages warning you of illegal moves or dangerous status effects. Top message is coloured, the rest is grey. I also spent an hour implementing line separators and immediately dropped them afterwards because they [looked ugly](). Oh well. At least I improved my coding skills in doing so.

## Spiritual Trafficking With Narcisstic Elementals

In order to be actually capable of obtaining the sweet new Legendary Souls I presented last week, I had to completely rework my game's trading posts, the Harmony Relays. Thematically, they are also a lot more disturbing. A Collectivist - the main antagonistic faction of my game, made up of air elementals - beckons the player forward to *inhale their gaseous body*, which induces a *deep trance* in which their thoughts mesh with your own. Then, they force you to partake in a strange ritual that does not end well for the hapless souls involved. Deranged. Hey, at least you got loot.

The "ritual" in question is rather similar to the previous iteration. In short, you have 8 numbers, and you assign these numbers in groups of two around a circle trying to balance out everything to make the final result as close to zero as possible, while also absolutely avoiding negative numbers. However, not only does it now look much more pleasing to the eyes, it also features two "free" slots that can be relied upon if the current group-of-two would mess up your placements. These slots, named Soulscribes, also determine what Caste the loot drops will be.

Once the ritual is completed, two Legendary Souls spawn at the centre, and you may choose one of the two to bring with you on your adventure. If you messed up your placements, the Souls have a chance proportional to the magnitude of your mistakes to be Serene Souls instead. These are not bad at all - in fact, there could be valid reasons to mess up the ritual on purpose. But they are... dangerous. The effect they have right now is interesting enough, but there's a lot more I want to do with them.

Here is a video demonstrating a succesfully constructed [Harmonic Relay](), ultimately giving me the choice between obtaining the Legendary Souls TODO or TODO. I'll admit it's a bit easy to get nigh-perfect Relays with this current iteration, so perhaps I will find a way to make it harder at some point. If I do, it won't affect the very first Relay, though. Getting Serene Souls so early in the run is opening a Pandora's Box that cannot be closed.

There's a lot of text explaining these Relays for first time players. About 600 words, to be precise. Granted, a third of that is just the Harmony going on an ego trip, but as much as I enjoy writing dialogue, I know it can be frustrating for the less narratively-inclined. I designed this tutorial to not be delivered all at once, and to sprinkle every single line in non-modal fashion that never locks player action. Worse case scenario, the more intrepid of players will not listen to a single word, completely mess up the Relay and play the game with Serene Souls, which might honestly make things quite interesting anyways. I intend for a full Serene-centric build to be a viable player choice in my vision.

My 2023 in RoguelikeDev post should be ferried out soon, featuring an... *unexpected guest*.