*"blehh"*

- Zaint voicing a profound philosophical argument on the cosmic insignificance of sentient life

## The Games Foxes Play
*([github](https://github.com/Oneirical/The-Games-Foxes-Play) | [view all previous posts](https://github.com/Oneirical/The-Games-Foxes-Play/tree/main/design/Development%20Logs) | [play 0.3 online in browser on itch.io!](https://oneirical.itch.io/tgfp))*

It's about the fifth time now that I heard someone say my game is very unintuitive with its mechanics, so this week, I implemented an infamous, yet essential component of any game - a tutorial.

I hate tutorials. Walls of text everywhere, immersion-breaking instructions, and infuriating assumptions that this is the first time the player has touched a video game in their lives... it's an utter travesty for any slightly self-respecting fictional world. Except [Just Shapes & Beats's tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZD1qbd48u8). I don't hate that one. Not a single word. No disrespect of the player's capabilities. Instantly filters out any players who wouldn't enjoy the rest of the game anyways.

Now, bullet hells with zero powerups are generally a *little* less complex than spell-focused traditional roguelikes. But taking *some* inspiration is absolutely a possibility...

## blehh

Before you continue reading, if you prefer an interactive experience, the tutorial is [right here](), playable in browser. You can finish it in less than 5 minutes.

The structure is simple: start with the absolute basics. Immobile target, essential controls displayed on the screen, elementary objective: slurp up his soul. Should that be done, the challenge intensifies: the target is now (slowly) moving and trying to attack you back. Have you consumed that one's psychic essence as well? Good, now the enemy is twice as fast and undefeatable. His name is Zaint, by the way. He only knows how to say "blehh" and isn't really the chatty type.

Until you use the Souls you have extracted from your previous two successes to assist you, that is. There are infinite attempts available, should you be an enthusiast of getting punched into the wall over and over instead of completing objectives.

Then, the five other Castes are introduced one by one - as a secondary enemy now accompanies Zaint in his quest to make you close the tab before you can see any further portion of my "interesting" game design choices. Each time, you can only slurp up Zaint's soul by using the new power available to you.

For further assistance, the UI can now have its functions clarified by mousing over each element. Including the Souls required to complete the tutorial. No keyboard support yet for this feature, but it shall come in due time.

# Collectivists, Take Notes

There was already another "tutorial" in my game - a long wall of text blurted out by a Harmony representative to explain one of their unique mechanics. While some have told me that they enjoy the Harmony's sass, one of my game design goals is "have a lot of flavour text but ensure that only ability descriptions are required to beat the game" and I will stand by it. I think a good plan is to implement more of these contained, interactive, puzzle-like experiences to teach my game's more unconventional mechanics, and remove the text-dumps. Of course, I expect the Collectivists have a slightly greater vocabulary than Zaint does, so appreciators of insufferable narcissism should be pleased nonetheless.

Hmm, at the end of that video I linked at the top, there *is* a final showdown to test all that you have learned... Perhaps I am not quite done with this initial tutorial just yet.